Patterns in nature are visible regularities of form found in the natural world. 
These patterns recur in different contexts and can sometimes be modelled mathematically. 
Natural patterns include symmetries, trees, spirals, meanders, waves, foams, tessellations, 
cracks and stripes.[1] Early Greek philosophers studied pattern, with Plato, Pythagoras and 
Empedocles attempting to explain order in nature.The modern understanding of visible patterns 
developed gradually over time.In the 19th century, the Belgian physicist Joseph Plateau 
examined soap films, leading him to formulate the concept of a minimal surface. The German 
biologist and artist Ernst Haeckel painted hundreds of marine organisms to emphasise their 
symmetry. Scottish biologist D'Arcy Thompson pioneered the study of growth patterns in both 
plants and animals, showing that simple equations could explain spiral growth. In the 20th 
century, the British mathematician Alan Turing predicted mechanisms of morphogenesis which 
give rise to patterns of spots and stripes. The Hungarian biologist Aristid Lindenmayer and 
the French American mathematician Benoît Mandelbrot showed how the mathematics of fractals 
could create plant growth patterns.Mathematics, physics and chemistry can explain patterns 
in nature at different levels and scales. Patterns in living things are explained by the 
biological processes of natural selection and sexual selection. Studies of pattern formation 
make use of computer models to simulate a wide range of patterns.HistoryEarly Greek 
philosophers attempted to explain order in nature, anticipating modern concepts. 
Pythagoras (c. 570–c. 495 BC) explained patterns in nature like the harmonies of 
as arising from number, which he took to be the basic constituent of existence.[a] 
Empedocles (c. 494–c. 434 BC) to an extent anticipated Darwin's evolutionary explanation 
for the structures of organisms.[b] Plato (c. 427–c. 347 BC) argued for the existence of 
natural universals. He considered these to consist of ideal forms (εἶδος eidos: "form") 
of which physical objects are never more than imperfect copies. Thus, a flower may be roughly circular, but it is never a perfect circle.[2] Theophrastus (c. 372–c. 287 BC) noted that plants "that have flat leaves have them in a regular series"; Pliny the Elder (23–79 AD) noted their patterned circular arrangement.[3] Centuries later, Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) noted the spiral arrangement of leaf patterns, that tree trunks gain successive rings as they age, and proposed a rule purportedly satisfied by the cross-sectional areas of tree-branches.[4][3]
